
https://softwarearchitect.ca/

https://ibm.ontidwit.com/libraries/admin-developer-architect-engineer

Good By Ajay Kukadiya 
Step1: Complete free online learning of AZ-900 all Modules from official MS website
URL :  https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/exams/az-900
Step2: Go for Available mock test
URL : https://yourlearning.ibm.com/activity/UDEMY-3325392. (edited)
docs.microsoft.comdocs.microsoft.com
Exam AZ-900: Microsoft Azure Fundamentals - Learn

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/exams/az-900


Free Azure Certification
https://ibm.seismic.com/X5/DocCenter.aspx?ContentId=4ee6392b-565e-4aeb-adb0-7d927b3d90d5

https://esi.microsoft.com

https://ibm.ontidwit.com/

AZ-204
Exam AZ-204: Developing Solutions for Microsoft Azure

Good Azure Instructor led
https://esi.microsoft.com/
with ibm credentials

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


----------------------------------------------Test-----------------------
Saheli Banerjee  11:31 AM
https://ibm-learning.udemy.com/course/az-900-practice-tests/learn/quiz/4956894#overview (DONE)


https://ibm-learning.udemy.com/course/az900-azure-tests/#tsdf-cloud-architecture-overview-feb2-5

https://ibm-learning.udemy.com/course/azure-fundamentals-az-900-certification/#tsdf-cloud-architecture-overview-feb2-5

----------------------Course ------------------------------------------------------------------
https://ibm-learning.udemy.com/course/microsoft-azure-beginners-guide/learn/lecture/12362554#reviews


Exam AZ-900: Microsoft Azure Fundamentals — Most Complete Preparation Guide Ever!
https://medium.com/@kyleake/exam-az-900-microsoft-azure-fundamentals-most-complete-preparation-guide-ever-76614d31a59c


Cloud Computing is the Delivery of computing services (servers,storage,networking, analytics)
over the internet to offer faster innovation, flexible resources and economics of scale
pay what you use



---------------Virtual Machine ------------------------
Its is called IAS
only pay for running cost of the Virtual server
both windows and Linux servers


Add - Virtual Machine -> 

Basis
Subscription = Test Environment
Resource Group = RG1
Name: demovm
Region: Asia
Image : Windows server 2019 Data center
Size: 
username: demousr
pwd: 	demousr123

By default no traffic is allowed to go the VM

inbound port : RDP 3389

Disks
Disk type: 

data disc can be attached later on even when the machine is up


Network

virtual network



----------------------------------------

VM Sizes

A-Series
Entry level economical VM for dev/test


Pricing 

pricing calculator
based on region and size

* Disc associated with VM are separately prices


Cost management -> Cost Analysis
Budget -> to control the cost

State of VM

OS disk created
Temporary dick Created (data will be lost on every reboot)

Stop
deallocated from underline physical server in Azure
loose public IP
sol: mark the IP address to static

if shutdown the VM from within the VM it will not deallocate
but if shutdown from console it will deallocated 

Create Linux VM
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nginx


-----------GBS Learning & Knowledge Day 1----------------------------------------

Session Link https://secure.video.ibm.com/channel/23944272

https://ec.yourlearning.ibm.com/w3/join/event/10166042
https://ibm.ontidwit.com/#/

https://w3.ibm.com/services/lighthouse/spaces/view/certification-acceleration-program/azure-cap



Chance to “Win Microsoft Surface Go Laptop” and “Assured Prize”. 
Follow the below steps: 
Add skill as “Microsoft Azure” on your LinkedIn profile. 
Click on the link https://microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RE4Lnd8
know how to update the skill on your LinkedIn profile. 
Once skill is updated, please fill the Raffle form 
here at https://www.microsoft.com/en-in/campaign/AzureSkillsUpdate/?source=IBMand & get a 
chance to win a “Microsoft Surface Go Laptop” Also,
fill the Assured Prize form here at https://www.microsoft.com/en-in/campaign/AzureSkills/?source=IBM
and get an assured prize from Microsoft at your doorstep.

https://dev.azure.com


Private Cloud
regulatory requirements / restrictions / 
eg. Azure stack 


Azure stack is the Microsoft implementation of Open-stack to build private cloud

Cloud Benefits
Disaster Recovery

SaaS
GMail, Google Drive, Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, Google assistant, Amazon Alexa etc. ... are these also examples of 

PaaS 
even you are charged if your code is not working 

Serverless
not changed if code is not running
storage charge for code but not computing charge

----------------------------------------------------
Azure MarketPlace
custom solutions / images

word press certified by bitnami is free

---------Availability Sets------------




---------------Udemy Course By Scott Duffy---------------------------------------------------------

https://ibm-learning.udemy.com/course/az900-azure/learn/lecture/24869144#overview

Section 1,7,8,9
Section 10,11,12
Section 13,14,15,16
Section 17,18,19

https://ibm-learning.udemy.com/course/az-900-practice-tests/learn/quiz/4956894#overview
Test 1,2
Test 3,4
Test 5,6


Mock
https://github.com/Dushyantsingh-ds/az-900_Exam_content

https://github.com/gro1m/AZ-900-Azure-Fundamentals
https://github.com/fdicarlo/AZ-900




-----------------------------------------Describe Cloud Concepts (20-25%) ---------------------------------------------------
Benefits

1) Cost saving 
Total Cost of ownership TCO 

2) Agility
Ability to change rapidly based on changes to market or environment
launch new products faster
deploy resource ASAP
scale on demand

3) Availability
expressed as percentage , ability of a system to respond to the user
providing continuous services 
more regions
4 nines  99.99%
4 min per month downtime

4) Scalability
Ability of a system to handle growth of users or workloads
Vertical and Horizontal
Scalability handles the increase and decrease of resources according to the system's workload demand
Scale up means to increase the size of single machine
Scale-out – Upgrade the capacity of the app by increasing the number of host instances


5) Elasticity is the ability to Automatically or dynamically increase or decrease the resources as needed. 

6) Global reach
Azure 60 locations 
services deployed closer to the users
performance
cost
complacence

7) Disaster Recovery
Ability of a system to recover from failure within a period of time and how much data loss
setup easily


Capital Expenditure CapEx
upfront money invested in assets like computers that return investment overtime

Operational Expenditure OpEx
Money spend every day on operating expenses

Consumption Based Model
pay per minute
pay per per hour 
pay per per execution 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IaaS
virtual machine , networking , load balancer , firewalls

Shared Responsibility Model

IaaS = mean infrastructure is managed by cloud provider like hardware/hypervisor, physical host, physical network, physical data center
most basic cloud service
whole VM
example: 
Azure Virtual Machine, LB

PaaS =  infra+ OS +runtime managed by cloud provider
app and data managed by you
upload code packages and run them without access to the hardware
Example 
Azure WebApps
IoT Hub


SaaS
pure consumption  model , directly consume the service
Azure IOT Central
example:
box
google drive
Not running software on your own, you are just using product
Google Apps
Zoom


The Serverless Model
Less access to the server than PasS

PaaS offering to connect millions of devices 
high speed 
thermostat
bility

Cloud Types

Public Cloud
Azure owns the hardware , on their network and infrastructure
rending the services

Private Cloud
Customer uses its own hardware
Azure Stack

Hybrid 
public and private 

-------------------------Core Azure Services ----15-20%--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Azure Regions
60+ 
geographical locations 
Not every service is available to each regions

Region Pairs
Each region has one other region as its pair
always in the same geography
high speed
USA - East US - West US
Canada - Canada Central-Canada East

put backups in pair regions


Availability Zone
Region is divided in to AZ
AZ are isolated with their power, own network , cooling


Azure Subscription
is a billing unit (level of billing)
You can create multiple subscriptions
form of billing
billing based on subscription , monthly , quarterly
each subscription for a department for billing
All resources consumed by a subscription will be billed to the owner

Azure Account
HR Subscription	Finance Subscription  Marketing Subscription
Services Consumed

Management Groups  (optional , enforce polices here that can be applicable to down subscriptions)
Subscriptions
Resource Groups
Resources

Offer Types
pay as you go
developer support
professional direct support
standard support

Resources
is an instance of services that you create 
eg when creating an instance of VM from Azure VM

Resource Groups  (folder type structure)
logical groups resources together
can be managed at resource group level
deleting a resource group will delete all the resources

resource group -> create new
subscription: select
resource group = firs rg
region: select region

Core resources

1) Compute
2 Network services
3) Storage services
4) Database services4
5) Azure Marketplace


1) Compute Services

Virtual Machine
IaaS
windows / Linux
take existing machine from your environment into cloud (copy)
It is a slice of physical machine shared with other customers with your full control

App Services
PaaS
No access to hardware
give your code and configurations and azure will run it

Container
fastest and easiest to deploy

ACI Azure Container Instance
single instance

Azure Kubernetes Service AKS
runs on a cluster of servers, enterprise-grade

Windows Virtual Desktop
desktop version of windows that runs in cloud
can even see your desktop on IOS and Andriod or from browser
runs on Azure


2) Network services

a: Connectivity 

Virtual Network
emulating a physical network
its a configuration over Microsoft Global network

Virtual Private Network VPN
Connecting two networks using Network gateway

Express Route
high speed private connect to Azure


b. Protection
DDos Protection
Azure Firewall
Network Security Groups (ACL)
Private Link 

b. Delivery

Load Balancer
Application Gateway
Content Delivery Network CDN
Azure Front Door Service=  load balancer, CDN and firewall all-in-one


3) Monitoring 
Network Watcher
ExpressRoute Monitor
Azure Monitor


console - Virtual Network -

from popular
console - window server 2016 data center

3) Storage services

Azure Storage Account
General purpose gpv2 is most common type
blobs, tables, queues, files

Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2
cheapest storage type
pay per GB (1.8 cents per GB)


Disk Storage

Azure Virtual Disks
Managed Disk
pay for reservation
optimised 

Reserve capacity in advance
Optimised to virtual hard disk

Creating a storage account

name: abc-newstorage
region 
Performance = standard
account kind= Storage v2 (General purpose gpv2 )

storage accounts have URL
containers in Storage account like a folder to hold files


Database Services 

1) Cosmos DB
Extremely fast
10 ms
videos games, social networks , global replication
No SQL storage
Multi Model
supports many open source API and protocols

2) Azure SQL Database
runs SQL server engine
Relational DB
easy to replicate/ scale and migrate

3) Azure Database for MySQL
open source
wordpress uses

4) Azure Database for PostgresSQL
open source

better support for cluster s and more complex server setups

5) SQL Managed Instance 
Most compatible with existing SQL server
minimal code change
Fully managed by Azure
always up to date


Azure MarketPlace
various services by partners

Azure Core Services


Internet of Things
devices communicating with cloud

IoT Hub
PaaS offering to connect millions of devices 
high speed 
thermostat

IoT Central
SaaS offering to connect millions of devices 

Azure Sphere
secure chip and Sphere OS
Cloud based security services


Big data and Analytics

Azure Synapse Analytics (SQL Data warehouse )

HDInsight
Hadoop, spark


Azure Databricks
real-time reporting drive insight from big data  like python notebook


Artificial Intelligence 

Azure Machine Learning

Cognitive Services
APIs identify location,objects 

Azure Bot Service
natural language chatbot service

Serverless

Azure Functions 
run on trigger to run some code

Logic Apps
workflow service , connectors

Microsoft purchased Github in 2018

Event grid
msg communication

Azure Devops


GitHub

GitHub actions
automate workflows 

Azure DevTest Labs

Azure Management Tools

Azure CLI
Power Shell
Azure Portal
Azure Cloud Shell (browser)
Azure Mobile App

Azure Advisor
analyse actual usage and tell u recommendations
free service


Azure ARM Templates
Azure resource Manager
deployment and management service
All actions that you take to manage Azure resources goes through ARM layer
IaaC

Azure Monitor
centralised dashboard
your resources
eg query to all vms
free


Azure Service Health
issues across Azure
regional level issue
Health Alerts in case your resource is affected


---------------------------Azure Security (10-15%)-------------------------------------
Azure Security Center
centralised security mgmt system that monitors and protect systems inside and outside of Azure
strength security
protect against threats
get secure faster

Key Vault
Central secure repository for your secrets , certificates and keys
create public and private keys
ssl certificates
grant access to apps at real time

Azure Sentinel
Centralizes all the log files from various resources
analyse to detect threats
Allow to run queries
automation to fix issues


Azure Dedicated Hosts
hardware that is dedicated to you only
expensive


Security Layers (Defence In Depth)

Data
virtual network point

Application
API Management

Compute
Limit RDP access

Network
NSG, subnets deny by default

Perimeter
DDos, firewalls

Identity & access 
Azure AD
corporate level

Physical
Doors, locks and key cards
data centres


Azure Firewall Service
detect patterns
XSS attack  cross site scripting
SQL injection

DDoS
Always on for monitoring (basic)
mitigation for L3/L4 attacks
L7 protection with application GW web application firewall
globally deployed
logging, alerting 
resource cost scale protection


-----------------Identity Governance , privacy and Compliance (20-25%)--------------------------------

Identity is a representation of a person , application or device

Azure Active Directory
AAD
it is not same as active directory

traditional AD does not work with Internet protocol
AAD provides identity as a service

AAD Benefits
Security
Reduced development time and easier support
More features like MFA, access review, conditional access
centralised administration via dashboard
only one user id and pwd,  SSO
Integration with other Azure services

AAD is Microsoft preferred solution for Identity Management
It is complete solution for managing users, groups and roles

Conditional Access  (routine access and  not normal access)
intelligent features
suspicious activity

Signal = conditions like location, duration, device from login
Decision = allow or not or with limited , notification
Enforcement = 

Multi-factor Authentication MFA
multiple piece of evidence

Role based Access Control (RBAC)
Segregate of duties

Accountant Role
Developer Role
Business Lead Role

then assign Permissions to the role
then assign users to the role

Reader level Role

Contributor level Role
full permission but can't give permissions to other 

Owner  level Role
full permission but can give permissions to other 

Locks
Puting lock on resources will restrict them to delete the resource

Resource Tags
metadata with a resource
helps in billing and support issues

Azure Policy
Governance
create rules across all of your Azure resources 
eg 
allowed VM
allowed locations
apply tag and its default value

create custom policies using JSON

console -> policy - definitions
resource location - Asign to scope 
either Management Group or Susbscription or Resource Group 

Azure Blueprints
Azure subscription templates with roles and policies already defined
Azure Blueprints allow the IT professional to orchestrate the deployment of resource templates and other Azure artifacts, including role assignments, policy assignments, resource groups, and resource manager templates. 

console - blueprint
definition - > 

CAF Cloud adaption Framework
set of documents and tools , best practices to  journey to cloud

Define Strategy (motivation,outcome,business justifications)
Plan (org alignment, skill readiness plan , cloud adoption plan)
Ready( Azure setup guide, first landing zone, expand landing zone, best practices)
Adopt (Migrate: migration guide, scenarios, best practices   Innovate: innovation guide,scenarios , best practices, improments)
Govern (Methodology)
Manage (business commitments, operations baseline , maturity)

Privacy and Compliance

Azure  Trusted Cloud

1) Security
encryption
protect data 

2) Privacy 
you own all your data
MS will not use it for marketing
specific policy to remove data if you discontinue using their services

3) Compliance
more than 90complaince certifications
more than 50 regional standards
more than 35 industries standards

4) Resiliency
High Availability
Disaster Recovery
Backup


5) Intellectual Property protection
Azure offers specific protections against frivolous infringement claims


Microsoft Privacy Statement 

Online Service terms (OST)
level of services we are proving 

Data Protection Addendum (DPA)
how they retain your data
where they store

Trust Center
portal contains  GDPR , ISO and NIST standards

General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
Set of rules designed to give EU citizens more control over their personal data
Data has to be collected legally under strict conditions
Data has to be protected for misuse
Reporting obligations if data is mishandled

ISO 9001
for Quality Management System QMS  (how they find and fix issues)

ISO/ IEC 
is for Service Management Services (handle IT as a service)


NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF)
national institute of standards and technology
audited for compliance to security and privacy process


US Gov agencies
diff hardware and network
DOD dept of defence
isolated data centres
portal.azure.us

Azure China 
inept company
Data remains in China


Free Services
Resource Groups
Virtual Networks up to to 50
Load Balancer (basic)
Azure Active Directory
Network Security Groups
Free Tier Web Apps up to 10


1) Pay per usage Model
Consumption Model

Azure Functions
1 million execution free per month
.20 per million executions
Cheapest VM is 20$ per month

Logic Apps
Storage Pay per GB
Outbound Bandwidth
Cognitive Services API

2) Pay Per Time
pay per second bulling means billing stops when VM is stopped


3) Stability in Pricing
pay a fixed amount per month for computing or storage
whether u use it or not
discount for 1 year or 3 year  reserved instance
multi-tenant or isolated environment

4) pay by bandwidth
inbound is free

1 PB of data 
transfer from Azure to data Center
5 cents per GB
$52000


Best Practices for Minimising Cost


Azure Advisor -> Cost  tab
Auto shutdown on dev/qa resources
Utilise cool/archive storage where possible

hot trier to cold tier
Reserved Instances  30-40% save
Billing Alerts
use Policy to restrict access to expensive resources
Auto Scaling resources
every resource has owner tags
Spot Pricing v low priory work flows for a discounted price

Azure Pricing Calculator
projecting future cost
https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/pricing/calculator/


Total Cost of ownership calculator TCO
the cost includes everything like cooling , maintenance etc


Azure Cost Management
free tool to analyze the spending so far
invoicing
tracking budget against cost
schedule reports

SLA
Service Level Agreement
certain commitments and penalties
99.99%

if those SLA doesn't met then can apply for the refund

Preview Features
used for testing and not for production as they don't have SLA

Public Preview
available to everyone

Private preview
require registration

General AvaiableiityGA

------------------------------------------------Questions ---------------------------------------

IaaS
VM
Azure Storage Account
Network
Operating System

PaaS
Azure Apps Web/mobile
Azure SQL 
Cosmos DB
Azure Data Warehouse (now known as Azure Synapse Analytics

Hybrid = public + private

Scale Set = Group of load balanced VMs

AZ is useful if one DC down HA
upfront amount given = CapEx
pay as you go =OPExp

Azure Dev Test Lab = Preconfigured  ARM templates

Management groups can include multiple subscriptions.
These groups are containers that help you manage access, policy, and compliance for multiple subscriptions. 

subscriptions can include multiple resource groups.

Nested resource groups are not available in Azure

An Azure AD tenant can have multiple subscriptions but an Azure subscription can only be associated with one
Azure AD tenant.
If your subscription expires, you lose access to all the other resources associated with the subscription.

Azure subscription can have multiple delete locks
azure resources inherits locks from its Resource group
resource can have a read only and delete lock

** North America has several Azure regions including west us, central us, south us

There are different replication options available with a storage account. 
The ‘minimum replication option is
Locally Redundant Storage (LRS). With LRS, data is replicated synchronously three times within the primary region.
Geo-redundant storage (GRS) has cross-regional replication

Data is not backed up automatically to another Azure Data Center
Not all Azure regions support availability zones.

To ensure that a virtual machine cannot connect to the other virtual machines, the virtual machine must be
deployed to a separate virtual network.

A resource group is a logical container for Azure resources. Resource groups make the management of Azure resources easier.
The permissions you apply to the resource group apply to all resources contained in the resource group.

DevTest Labs creates labs consisting of pre-configured bases or Azure Resource Manager templates.
By using DevTest Labs, you can test the latest versions of your applications by doing the following tasks

Azure Data Warehouse (now known as Azure Synapse Analytics) is a PaaS offering from Microsoft can offer
99.9% availability because it has high availability features built into the platform.

Azure Cloud Shell is an interactive, authenticated, browser-accessible shell for managing Azure
Cloud Shell enables access to a browser-based command-line experience built with Azure management tasks
in mind.

You can use Power BI to analyze and visualize data stored in Azure Data Lake and Azure SQL Data
Warehouse.

The URL of the Azure portal is https://portal.azure.com.

An Availability Zone is a physically separate zone, within an Azure region. There are three
Availability Zones per supported Azure region.you can protect your apps and data from the loss of a data center.

A Local Network Gateway is an object in Azure that represents your on-premise VPN device. 
The local network gateway typically refers to your on-premises location.

A Virtual Network Gateway is the VPN object at the Azure end of the VPN. 
A ‘connection is what connects the Local Network Gateway an the Virtual Network Gateway to bring up the VPN.

The Azure VPN device is known as a Virtual Network Gateway. 
The virtual network gateway needs to be located in a dedicated subnet in the Azure virtual network. 
This dedicated subnet is known as a gateway subnet and must be named ‘GatewaySubnet

To implement a solution that enables the client computers on your on-premises network to communicate to the
Azure virtual machines, you need to configure a VPN (Virtual Private Network) to connect the on-premises
network to the Azure virtual network.

In the Azure virtual machines page in the Azure portal, there is a named Maintenance Status. This column will
display service issues that could affect your virtual machine.

A PowerShell script is a file that contains PowerShell cmdlets and code. A PowerShell script needs to be run in
PowerShell.PowerShell can now be installed on Linux
With the Azure Cloud Shell, you can run PowerShell cmdlets and scripts in a Web browser.
computer has PowerShell Core 6.0 installed. Therefore, this solution does meet the goal

You can restrict traffic to multiple virtual networks with a single Azure firewall.
Azure Firewall is a managed, cloud-based network security service that protects your Azure Virtual Network
resources.

On the Help and Support blade, there is a Service Health option. If you click Service Health, a new blade
opens. The Service Health blade contains the Planned Maintenance link which opens a blade where you can
view a list of planned maintenance events that can affect the availability of an Azure subscription

Azure DevOps is Microsoft’s primary software development and deployment platform
Azure Advisor is a personalized cloud consultant that helps you follow best practices to optimize your Azure deployments.

Azure Cognitive Services are APIs, SDKs, and services available to help developers build intelligent applications without having direct AI or data science skills or knowledge.
create applications that can see, hear, speak, understand, and even begin to reason
Azure Cognitive Services can be categorized into five main pillars - 
Vision, Speech,Language, Web Search, and Decision.

Azure Application Insights detects and diagnoses anomalies in web apps.
Application Insights, a feature of Azure Monitor, is an extensible Application Performance Management (APM) service for developers and DevOps
Use it to monitor your live applications. It will automatically detect performance anomalies,

Azure SQL Database
is a relational database service. Azure SQL Database is a managed SQL Server Database in Azure.

Azure SQL Synapse Analytics (previously called Data Warehouse) 
is a cloud-based Platform-as-a-Service
It is a large-scale, distributed, MPP (massively parallel processing) relational
database technology in the same class of competitors as Amazon Redshift or Snowflake.

Azure Data Lake Analytics
You can process big data jobs in seconds with Azure Data Lake Analytics. You can process petabytes of data
for diverse workload categories such as querying, ETL, analytics, machine learning, machine translation
Azure Data Lake Analytics can run massively parallel data transformation and processing programs across petabytes of data.


Azure HDInsight.
Azure HDInsight is a fully managed, full-spectrum, open-source analytics service in the cloud for enterprises.
The Apache Hadoop cluster type in Azure HDInsight allows you to use HDFS, YARN resource management,
and a simple MapReduce programming model to process and analyze batch data in parallel.

You can browse available virtual machine images in the Azure Marketplace
Azure Advisor displays security recommendations.

Azure blobs are the backbone of the virtual disks platform for Azure IaaS
Azure blobs are used to store the unmanaged data disks of the virtual machine.

Networks in Azure are known as virtual networks.

Azure Files
is Microsoft's easy-to-use cloud file system. Azure file shares can be seamlessly used in Windows and Windows Server.
map a network drive from several computers that run Windows 10 to Azure Storage

Azure Cosmos DB is Microsoft's globally distributed, multi-model database service
Can add data concurrently from multiple regions
Can store JSON documents

The first thing you create in Azure is a subscription. You can think of an Azure subscription as an ‘Azure
account. You get billed per subscription.

Microsoft's Software as a Service (SaaS)-based cloud offerings (Office 365, Intune/EMS, and Dynamics 365)
charge per-user license fees.

Microsoft's Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud offerings (Azure) charge
based on cloud resource consumption.

************************************
Azure Logic Apps
is a cloud service that helps you schedule, automate, and orchestrate tasks, business
processes, and workflows when you need to integrate apps, data, systems, and services across enterprises or organizations
Serverless Computing


video playback experience.
A content delivery network (CDN) is a distributed network of servers that can efficiently deliver web content to users.
CDNs store cached content on edge servers in point-of-presence (POP) locations that are close to end
users, to minimize latency.

IoT Hub (Internet of things Hub) provides data from millions of sensors.
IoT Hub is a managed service, hosted in the cloud, that acts as a central message hub for bi-directional
communication between your IoT application and the devices it manages.
There are two storage services IoT Hub can route messages to -- 
Azure Blob Storage and Azure Data Lake

The Azure portal is the web-based portal for managing Azure. Being web-based, you can use the Azure portal
Azure Cloud Shell is a web-based command line for managing Azure. You access the Azure Cloud Shell from
the Azure portal. Being web-based, you can use the Azure Cloud Shell on an iPhone

App Service web apps = 99.95%
SQL Database = 99.99%
What is the maximum downtime you would expect for this application?
The composite SLA for the application is the product of both SLAs, which equals 99.94 percent.

Azure resources deployed to a single resource group can be located in different regions. 
The resource group only contains metadata about the resources it contains.
By default, permissions set at the resource level are inherited by the resources in the resource group.

Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio (classic) 
is a collaborative, drag-and-drop tool you can use to build, test, and deploy predictive analytics solutions on your data.

Azure storage offers different access tiers: hot, cool and archive.
The archive access tier has the lowest storage cost. But it has higher data retrieval costs compared to the hot
and cool tiers. Data in the archive tier can take several hours to retrieve.

While a blob is in archive storage, the blob data is offline and can't be read, overwritten, or modified.
To read or download a blob in archive, you must first rehydrate it to an online tier.

Azure Advisor provides you with a consistent, consolidated view of recommendations for all your Azure resources.
However, Azure Advisor does not provide recommendations on how to improve the security of an Azure AD environment.

Advisor helps you optimize and reduce your overall Azure spend by identifying idle and underutilized resources.
You can get cost recommendations from the Cost tab on the Advisor dashboard

The Azure Cloud Shell is a free interactive shell. It has common Azure tools pre-installed and configured to use with your account.

Now with the open source and cross-platform release of PowerShell, 
you’ll be able to manage all your Azure resources from Windows, Linux and macOS using your tool of choice, either the Azure CLI or Azure PowerShell cmdlets.

Azure virtual machines provide operation system virtualization

Azure Container Instances provide portable environments for virtualized applications

Azure App Service is used to build, deploy and scale web apps
Azure App Service is a platform-as-a-service (PaaS) offering that lets you create web and mobile apps for any platform or device and connect to data anywhere

Azure Functions provide a platform for serverless code

To open the Cloud Shell, just select Try it from the upper right corner of a code block. You can also launch Cloud Shell in a separate browser tab by going to https://shell.azure.com/bash.

You can use Azure Resource Manager templates to automate the creation of the Azure resources. 
Deploying resource through templates is known as ‘Infrastructure as code’. example is a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) file 

Azure Databricks is a big analysis service for machine learning.
Azure Databricks is an Apache Spark-based analytics platform. The platform consists of several components including ‘MLib

Azure Application Insights detects and diagnoses anomalies in web apps.
Application Insights, a feature of Azure Monitor, is an extensible Application Performance Management (APM)
service for developers and DevOps professionals.

Azure App Service
Azure App Service is an HTTP-based service for hosting web applications, REST APIs, and mobile back ends.
You can develop in your favourite language, be it .NET, .NET Core, Java, Ruby, Node.js, PHP, or Python.

You need a minimum of two virtual machines with each one located in a different availability zone

Azure Event Hubs
is a big data streaming platform and event ingestion service.Azure Event Hubs can be used to ingest, buffer, store, and process your stream in real time to get actionable insights.
Azure Event Hubs can be used to capture your data in near-real time in an Azure Blob storage or Azure Data Lake Storage for long-term retention or micro-batch processing.


PowerApps lets you quickly build business applications with little or no code. It is not used to create Azure virtual machines.
PowerApps Portals allow organizations to create websites which can be shared with users external to their organization either anonymously or through the login provider of their choice like LinkedIn, Microsoft Account,
other commercial login providers.

Being web-based, the Azure portal can be run on a browser from a tablet that runs the Android operating system.

Azure Databricks is an Apache Spark-based analytics service

Azure Monitor can monitor performance of on-premises as well
Azure Monitor correlate events from multiple resources into a Central Repository
You can stream data from multiple resources into Azure Log Analytics. You can then fire queries to correlate the events within Azure Log Analytics.


Azure Monitor can send alerts to AAD security
Alerts in Azure Monitor proactively notify you of critical conditions and potentially attempt to take corrective action.

Azure Monitor can trigger alerts based on data in Azure log Analytic workspace
Azure Monitor uses Target Resource, which is the scope and signals available for alerting. A target can be any
Azure resource. Example targets: a virtual machine, a storage account, a virtual machine scale set, a Log
Analytics workspace, or an Application Insights resource.

Azure Repos is a set of version control tools that you can use to manage your code.


Azure Site Recovery provides Fault Tolerance for VM
Azure Site Recovery helps ensure business continuity by keeping business apps and workloads running during outages. 
Site Recovery replicates workloads running on physical and virtual machines (VMs) from a primary site to a secondary location.

Availability Zones are unique physical locations within an Azure region.

Secures websites from attacks
Generates reports that contain details of attempted attacks
Sol:
Azure has two DDoS service offerings that provide protection from network attacks: 
DDoS Protection Basic and DDoS Protection Standard.
DDoS Standard can generate reports that contain details of attempted attacks as required in this question.


Monitor threats by using sensors
To monitor threats by using sensors, you would use Azure Advanced Threat Protection (ATP).
Azure Advanced Threat Protection (ATP) is a cloud-based security solution that leverages your on-premises
Active Directory signals to identify, detect, and investigate advanced threats

Enforce Azure Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) based on a condition

** Azure Active Directory Identity Protection
To enforce MFA based on a condition, you would use .

Azure Service Health consists of three components: 
1-Azure Status (health of all other services available in Azure)
2- Azure Service Heath
3-Azure Resource Health (view the health of a virtual machine)
Azure service health provides a personalized view of the health of the Azure services and regions you're using.

From Azure Service Health, an administrator can create a rule to be alerted if 
Azure Service Fails
You can use Resource Health to view the health of a virtual machine. However, you cannot use Resource
Health to prevent a service failure affecting the virtual machine.
Azure resource health provides information about the health of your

Azure complies with the company’s regional requirements
You can view a list of compliance certifications in the Trust Center to determine whether Azure meets your regional requirements

Centralizing storage of application secrets in Azure Key Vault allows you to control their distribution

Authorization to access Azure resources can be provided by other identity providers by using FEDERATION. 
A commonly used example of this is to federate your on-premises Active Directory environment with Azure AD
and use this federation for authentication and authorization.

third-party cloud services and on-premises Active Directory can be used to access Azure resources. This is known as ‘federation.

Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) is a centralized identity provider in the cloud. 
This is the primary built-in authentication and authorization service to provide secure access to Azure resources.

Azure Key Vault is a secure store for storage various types of sensitive information.
All information stored in the Key Vault is encrypted.
Azure Key Vault can be used to Securely store and tightly control access to tokens, passwords, certificates, API keys, and other secrets

Access to a key vault requires proper authentication and authorization before a caller (user or application) can get access.

A network security group works like a firewall
A network security group contains security rules that allow or deny inbound network traffic to, or outbound network traffic from, several types of Azure resources.
use to control the ports that devices on the Internet can use to access the virtual machines

You can configure a lock on a resource group to prevent the accidental deletion of the resource group. The lock applies to everyone, including global administrators. 
If you want to delete the resource group, the lock must be removed first.

In the portal, the locks are called Delete and Read-only respectively.
CanNotDelete means authorized users can still read and modify a resource, but they can't delete the resource.
ReadOnly means authorized users can read a resource, but they can't delete or update the resource.
Applying this lock is similar to restricting all authorized users to the permissions granted by the Reader role.

Azure Germany is available to eligible customers and partners globally who intend to do business in the EU/EFTA, including the United Kingdom.
** Any user or enterprise that require its data to stay in Germany
Azure Germany offers a separate instance of Microsoft Azure services from within German data centers.

When you create a virtual machine, the default setting is to create a Network Security Group attached to the
network interface assigned to a virtual machine

** Encrypts the administrative credentials during services' deployment.
Key Vault


Only users that are authorized by Azure AD can access Azure resources.
false

Because you have been assigned the Owner role, you can now transfer the ownership of your Azure subscription.
false
You need to be the Administrator of the billing account that has the subscription to be able to transfer the subscription.
A subscription Owner can manage all resources and permissions within the subscription, but cannot transfer ownership of the subscription.

Security information and event management (SIEM) & security orchestration automated response (SOAR) 
Azure Sentinel
intelligent security analytics and threat intelligence




The tool you would use to sync the accounts is Azure AD Connect. The Azure Active Directory Connect
synchronization services (Azure AD Connect sync) is a main component of Azure AD Connect.

Third-party cloud services and on-premises Active Directory can be used to access Azure
resources. This is known as ‘federation.

Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) is a cloud-based service. It does not require domain controllers on virtual machines.


A DDoS protection plan is used to protect against DDoS attacks; it does not provide connectivity to a virtual machine.
To ensure that a virtual machine named VM1 is accessible from the Internet over HTTP, you need to modify a network security group or Azure Firewall

Azure Firewall is a managed, cloud-based network security service that protects your Azure Virtual Network resources.
In this question, we need to add a rule to Azure Firewall to allow the connection to the virtual machine on port 80 (HTTP).

Azure Traffic Manager 
is a DNS-based load balancing solution. 
It is not used to ensure that a virtual machine named VM1 is accessible from the Internet over HTTP

Azure Government is a cloud environment specifically built to meet compliance and security requirements for US government.
The key difference between Microsoft Azure and Microsoft Azure Government is that Azure Government is a sovereign cloud.

It is not true that you must deploy a federation solution or sync on-premises identities to the cloud. 
You can have a cloud-only environment and use MFA.

Valid MFA methods include:
Password, Microsoft Authenticator App, SMS and Voice call
You can configure MFA to be required for administrator accounts only or you can configure MFA for any user account.

Azure AD Identity Protection includes two risk policies: 
sign-in risk policy and user risk policy. 
A sign-in risk represents the probability that a given authentication request isn’t authorized by the identity owner.
There are several types of risk detection. One of them is Anonymous IP Address
You can configure the sign-in risk policy to require that users change their password.

ISO is the International Organization for Standardization for all industries
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is a physical sciences laboratory, and a non regulatory agency of the United States Department of Commerce.
GDPR is the General Data Protection Regulations.

to limit the types of connections from the web servers to the database servers.
Sol = NSG

*** An application connect to AD to get the token 

** the policy is enforced for all new deployed resources and no action is taken on existing deployed resources, just that they will be marked as "Non-compliant".

Azure AD authenticates users and provides access tokens. An access token is a security token that is issued
by an authorization server. It contains information about the user and the app for which the token is intended,
which can be used to access Web APIs and other protected resources.
Apps can delegate that responsibility to a centralized identity provider.


Azure Policy is a service in Azure that you use to create, assign, and manage policies.
These policies enforce different rules and effects over your resources, so those resources stay compliant with your corporate

The easy way to do this is to sync all the Active Directory user accounts is
Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).
The tool you would use to sync the accounts is Azure AD Connect
The Azure Active Directory Connect synchronization services (Azure AD Connect sync) is a main component of Azure AD Connect

You can send Azure AD activity logs to Azure Monitor logs to enable rich visualizations, monitoring and alerting on the connected data.

Azure Monitor cannot monitor resources in multiple subscriptions.

You would use the Azure Activity Log, not Access Control to view which user turned off a specific virtual machine during the last 14 days.
Activity logs are kept for 90 days

Provides network traffic filtering across multiple Azure subscriptions
Azure Firewall is a managed, cloud-based network security service that protects your Azure Virtual Network resources

Azure Key Vault 
can be used to Securely store and tightly control access to tokens, passwords, certificates,API keys, and other secrets

Azure Policy 
is a service in Azure that you use to create, assign, and manage policies. These policies enforce different rules and effects over your resources,

Azure Information Protection 
can encrypt documents and emails
The protection technology uses Azure Rights Management (often abbreviated to Azure RMS).
This protection technology uses encryption, identity, and authorization policies.

Compliance Manager in the Service Trust Portal 
is a workflow-based risk assessment tool that helps you track,
assign, and verify your organization's regulatory compliance activities related to Microsoft Cloud services, such as Microsoft 365, Dynamics 365, and Azure.

Azure Advisor
does however, generate a list of virtual that ARE NOT protected by Azure Backup.

If you implement the security recommendations, you company’s score will increase, not decrease.

There is no requirement to implement the security recommendations provided by Azure Advisor.

Azure Information Protection is used to automatically add a watermark to Microsoft Word documents that contain credit card information
You use Azure Information Protection labels to apply classification to documents and emails

Azure Activity Log
You would use the Azure Activity Log, not Azure Monitor to view which user turned off a specific virtual machine during the last 14 days.

The VNet will be marked as ‘Non-compliant when the policy is assigned. However, it will not be deleted and will continue to function normally.
If there are any existing resources that aren't compliant with a new policy assignment, they appear under Non-compliant resources.

Azure firewall 
does not encrypt network traffic. It is used to block or allow traffic based on source/destination IP address, source/destination ports and protocol.

A network security group 
does not encrypt network traffic. It works in a similar way to a firewall in that it is used
to block or allow traffic based on source/destination IP address, source/destination ports and protocol.

VM could not encrypt the traffic to an Internet host that is not configured to require the encryption

Azure Policy controls properties such as the types or locations of resources


Microsoft Compliance Manager (Preview) is a free workflow-based risk assessment tool that lets you track,
assign, and verify regulatory compliance activities related to Microsoft cloud services. 

Azure AD join only applies to Windows 10 devices and not android
You can create Group policies in Azure AD

The Microsoft Privacy Statement explains what personal data Microsoft processes, how Microsoft processes
the data, and the purpose of processing the data

Azure Security Center is a unified infrastructure security management system that strengthens the security
posture of your data centres, and provides advanced threat protection across your hybrid workloads in the
cloud - whether they're in Azure or not - as well as on premises.


Only two features: Continuous assessment and security recommendations, and Azure secure score, are free.
The advanced monitoring capabilities in Security Center also let you track and manage compliance and governance over time.

You can move a VM and its associated resources to a different subscription by using the Azure portal

Many Azure resource have quote limits. The purpose of the quota limits is to help you control your Azure
costs. However, it is common to require an increase to the default quota.
You can request a quota limit increase by opening a support request. In the support request, select ‘Service and subscription limits (quotas)’

Azure Free Account gives you 12 months access to the most popular free services. It also gives you a credit (150 GBP or 200 USD) to use on any Azure service for up to 30 days.
All free accounts expire after 12 months.
You can only create one free Azure account per Microsoft account

You can assign additional account administrators in the Azure Portal. Each Azure subscription can contain multiple account administrators

You need an Azure Active Directory account to manage a subscription, not a Microsoft account
An account is created in the Azure Active Directory when you create the subscription.
Further accounts can be created in the Azure Active Directory to manage the subscription.

Resource groups are logical containers for Azure resources. 
However, resource groups do not contain subscriptions. 
Subscriptions contain resource groups.

You can use resource tags to ‘label Azure resources
Location = Office1. When all Azure resources are tagged, you can generate reports
to list all resources based on the value of the tag. For example: All resources used by Office1

Microsoft guarantee at least 99.9% availability of the Azure Active Directory Premium edition services
No SLA is provided for the Free tier of Azure Active Directory
You can claim credit if the availability falls below the SLA.

If the SLA for an Azure service is not met, you receive credits for that service and that service only


Public Preview means that the service is in public beta and can be tried out by anyone with an Azure
subscription. Services in public preview are often offered at a discount price

You can use services in public preview in production environments. However, you should be aware that the
service may have faults, is not subject to an SLA and may be withdrawn without notice.

Services in private preview can be viewed in the regular Azure portal
Access to private preview features is usually by invitation only

Public previews are excluded from SLAs and in some cases, no support is offered.

An Azure free account comes with a ‘basic’ support plan, not a ‘standard’ support plan.

You can purchase the Professional Direct, Standard, and Developer support plans with the Microsoft Customer
Agreement. You can also purchase the Professional and Standard support plans with the Enterprise Agreement.

Users with any type of Azure subscription (pay-as-you-go, Enterprise Agreement, Microsoft Customer Agreement etc.) can get support from the MSDN forums.

An Azure subscription is a container for Azure resources. It is also a boundary for permissions to resources
and for billing. You are charged monthly for all resources in a subscription. 
A single Azure tenant (Azure Active Directory) can contain multiple Azure subscriptions


A resource group is a container that holds related resources for an Azure solution. The resource group can
include all the resources for the solution, or only those resources that you want to manage as a group.


To enable each department administrator to manage the Azure resources used by that department, you will
need to create a separate subscription per department. You can then assign each department administrator
as an administrator for the subscription to enable them to manage all resources in that subscription

The Modern Lifecycle Policy covers products and services that are serviced and supported continuously.
For products governed by the Modern Lifecycle Policy, Microsoft will provide a minimum of 12 months' notification
prior to ending support if no successor product or service is offered—excluding free services or preview releases.

A subscription owner can manage all resources and permissions within the subscription but cannot transfer ownership of the subscription
You can convert a free trial subscription to Pay-As-You-Go. 
You can remove the spending limit, but you can’t increase or decrease it.
The spending limit in Azure prevents spending over your credit amount
if you signed up for Azure free account, your spending limit is $200 and you can't change it to $500.

A reservation is where you commit to pay for a resource (for example a virtual machine) for one or three years.
This gives you a discounted price on the resource for the reservation period.

To ensure that a virtual machine is ‘stopped (deallocated)’, you need to stop the virtual machine in the Azure portal

You are not charged for unused network interfaces. Therefore, deleting unused network interfaces will not reduce the Azure costs for the company.
You are charged for public IP addresses. Therefore, deleting unused public IP addresses will reduce the Azure costs.
You are not charged for user accounts. Therefore, deleting unused user accounts will not reduce the Azure costs for the company

"Maximum Available Minutes" is the total accumulated minutes during a billing month .
"Downtime" is the total accumulated minutes that are part of Maximum Available Minutes where a system is unavailable.
Monthly Uptime % = (Maximum Available Minutes-Downtime) / Maximum Available Minutes x 100.

Resource groups are logical containers for Azure resources. You do not pay for resource groups.

Data ingress over a VPN is data ‘coming in’ to Azure over the VPN. 
You are charged data transfer costs for data ingress

Data egress over a VPN is data ‘going out’ of Azure over the VPN. You are not charged for data egress.

A basic support plan provides:
24x7 access to billing and subscription support, online self-help, documentation, white papers, and support forums
Best practices: Access to full set of Azure Advisor recommendations
Health Status and Notifications: Access to personalized Service Health Dashboard & Health API

You can open support cases in the following plans: Premier, Professional Direct, Standard, and Developer only.
You cannot open support cases in the Basic support plan.

You can create an Azure support request from the Help and Support blade in the Azure portal or from the
context menu of an Azure resource in the Support + Troubleshooting section.

You are not charged for Azure Active Directory Groups. Therefore, deleting unused groups will not reduce your Azure costs.

The Basic support plan is free so is therefore the cheapest. 
The Developer support plan is the cheapest paid for support plan. 
The order of support plans in terms of cost ranging from the cheapest to most expensive is:
Basic, Developer, Standard, Professional Direct, Premier

Preview features are made available to you on the condition excluded from the Service Level Agreements

The SLA for virtual machines guarantees ‘uptime.
For all Virtual Machines that have two or more instances deployed across two or more Availability Zones in
the same Azure region, we guarantee you will have Virtual Machine Connectivity to at least one instance at least 99.99% of the time.


Services in private preview are available only to selected people who has signed up to the private preview program
Services in development are not available to the public.

Services provided under an Enterprise Agreement (EA) subscription are available only to the subscription owner

The Basic support plan does not have any technical support for engineers.
*** Access to Support Engineers via email or phone is available in the following support plans: 
Standard, Professional Direct, Premier

The Premier support plan provides customer specific architectural support such as design reviews,
performance tuning, configuration and implementation assistance delivered by Microsoft Azure technical
specialists.

Most services go to PRIVATE preview then PUBLIC preview before being released to GENERAL availability.
The private preview is only available to certain Azure customers for evaluation purposes. The public preview is available to all Azure customers

Azure services in public preview can be managed using the regular management tools: Azure Portal, Azure CLI and PowerShell

Service In Public Preview mode
Anyone can use the service but normal service level agreements do not apply
Public Preview is for anyone to use, but it is not supported nor guaranteed to continue to be available

Services in private or public preview are usually offered at reduced costs. However, the costs increase, not
decrease when the services are released to general availability

Azure customers with an Azure Enterprise Agreement (EA), Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA), or Microsoft Partner Agreement (MPA) can use Azure Cost Management.
Cost management is the process of effectively planning and controlling costs involved in your business

you are unable to start a VM after a trial has expired
You are not charged for Azure Active Directory user accounts so you can continue to create accounts.

Azure Active Directory 
is a Platform as a Service that provides single sign-on and multi-factor authentication.

Azure Active Directory provides the following licenses: 
Free, "Pay as you go", Premium P1, and Premium P2.


The Basic support plan does not have any technical support for engineers.
The Developer support plan has only technical support for engineers via email.
The Standard, Professional Direct, and Premier support plans have technical support for engineers via email and phone.

There are different payment options in Azure including 
1) pay-as-you-go (PAYG), 
2) Enterprise Agreement (EA),
3) Microsoft Customer Agreement (MCA) accounts

Your Azure costs are ‘per subscription

A reservation is where you commit to a resource (for example a virtual machine) for one or three years

A resource group is a logical container for Azure resources. You can view the total cost of all the resources in a resource group

An Azure free account has a spending limit. This is currently 200 USD or 150 GBP.

Azure free account has a 5 GB blob storage limit and a 5 GB file storage limit.

Azure free account has a limit of 10 web, mobile or API apps

An Azure service in general availability is available to all Azure customers, not just a subset of the customers.

You can use the same account to manage multiple subscriptions.

You cannot merge two subscriptions into a single subscription. However, you can move some Azure
resources from one subscription to another. You can also transfer ownership of a subscription and change the
billing type for a subscription.

A company can have multiple subscriptions and store resources in the different subscriptions. However, a resource instance can exist in only one subscription

SLA’s vary based on the resource type and the location distribution of the resource. However, the minimum uptime for all Azure services is 99.9 percent

The SLA guaranteed uptime is increased (usually to 99.95 percent) when resources are deployed across multiple regions

The number of subscriptions is unrelated to uptime SLA’s.

Budget alerts notify you when spending, based on usage or cost, reaches or exceeds the amount defined in
the alert condition of the budget. Cost Management budgets are created using the Azure portal or the Azure Consumption API.

With Azure ExpressRoute, 
all inbound data transfer is free of charge.

Data traffic b/w Azure services within the same Azure region is always free
Outbound data traffic from Azure to on-premise is always free

The price of Azure storage varies by region.
You are charged for read and write operations in general-purpose v2 storage accounts.

Transfer data b/w storage accounts in diff regions is not free

Network layer of network security
Subnets is part of network security

General Availability GA mode
Anyone can use the service for any reason
It is fully supported and can be used for production

Bandwidth refers to data moving in and out of Azure data centers, 
Ingress bandwidth is free. You pay for egress (outbound)

Azure Power-shell scripts and Command Line Interface (CLI) scripts  are not compatible with each other
PowerShell is it's own language, different than CLI

For tax optimization
Operating Expenditure is thought to be preferable because you can fully deduct expenses when they are incurred

DDoS protection services
Azure DDos Protection Basic is free, 
while you can upgrade to Standard for a fee

Microsoft Service Trust Portal
A list of standards that Microsoft follows, pen test results, security assessments, white papers, faqs, and other documents that can be used to show Microsoft's compliance efforts

Cloud Shell - allows access to the CLI and Power shell consoles in the Azure Portal

Azure Service Health -
lets you know about any Azure-related service issues including region-wide downtime

Elasticity - the ability of a system to automatically grow when maximum capacity is reached, and automatically shrink to minimize waste

Basic way of protecting an Azure Virtual Network subnet?
Network Security Group (NSG)

Azure Monitor - 
a centralized dashboard that collects all the logs, metrics and events from your resources

Economies of scale -
the more you buy something, the cheaper it is per unit to buy

Private Preview means you have to apply to use a service, and you may or may not be selected

Firewall is part of the perimeter security

Storage Service service to store data disk of VM
REST based object storage for unstructured data ideal for streaming and storing media

Azure products presently in Development Stage
Azure Update Page

AZ example
two data center in same region

sensory telemetry data to cloud and diagnose problems of device not responding
IOT Central

Production Issue Severity A
60 mins

Serverless
Azure Functions


Explore Azure Cloud Shell
storage account to be created

Visualise and Analyse Telemetry data
Application Insight (feature of Azure Monitor)

Map a network drive from several computers that run window 10
Files service in storage account

Azure Logic App (workflows/business tasks/serverless) come with no upfront costs and termination fees
You billed for only what you use

Web apps must be registered with Azure AD to support authentication and authorization services

Customer Should not use Previews for processing personal data or any data subject to compliance requirements

Previews are subject to reduced or different service terms than generally release features
Azure Portal is a single easy to use console for deploying and managing cloud resources

Azure Logic App ensure to handle expected load
change workflow settings

For mission critical and changes to resource requirements to be incremental
Fault Tolerance 
High Availability

Identify email messages that should be protected through authorization and identify policies 
Azure Information Protection AIP

use MFA server for securing AD F5 resources both on-premise and in the cloud

Main purpose for releasing an Azure feature in public preview to obtain customer feedback

Activity log alerts are created through Azure Monitor as soon as you add a resource to a new Azure subscription

Azure Function hosting plan allows for Highest CPU and RAM resources
App service Plan

VM hosts data files that must be available to other VMs,  data is secure
File Storage , migrate on-premise file


Authentication methods common to SSPR and MFA
Voice Call
SMS
Password

Private cloud use of custom developed software
Access to be limited to one tenant

Total Cost of ownership calculator gives you an estimate of the cost savings 
you can achieve by migrating your workloads to Azure

General Availability refer to a fully tested and evaluated Azure feature that is made 
available to all Azure subscribers as part of the Azure product set


serverless computing
Azure Logic App


Minimum SLA guarantee
Single VM with Premium Storage

Identifies and investigate suspicious user activities
Azure Advance Threat Protection

IOT hub is bidirectional connection b/w IOT devices and IOT application


Resources allocated dynamic to the function app and Billing based on execution of app
Windows OS and Consumption plan

*************************************************************************************************************************88888

Recommended Region = data centers or AZ
Alternate regions = not designed to support AZ


When choosing a PaaS solution you are not responsible for managing the infrastructure that powers and runs your application. Also, you don't have access to the actual operating systems
A Platform as a Service(PaaS) solution provides additional memory to apps by changing pricing tiers. 
App Service plan needs to be configured first.
An application deployed within Azure App Service can automatically scale, both up and down, based on conditions that you define.

When you apply a lock at a parent scope, all resources within that scope inherit the same lock. Even resources you add later inherit the lock from the parent.
if your VM has a Read-only lock applied, you can add a Delete lock as well.

An Azure subscription can be associated to multiple Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenants.
but 
an Azure subscription can only be associated with one Azure AD tenant.

You can modify the Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant to which an Azure subscription is associated to

If your subscription expires, you lose access to all the other resources associated with the subscription. 
However, the Azure AD directory remains in Azure.

Europe has several Azure regions, including North Europe, West Europe, UK West, Switzerland North and some others as well


*** Azure Site Recovery provides DR for virtual machines.
Site Recovery replicates workloads running on physical and virtual machines (VMs) from a primary site to a secondary location.


Azure Active Directory Domain Services (Azure AD DS) allows you to create Group Policies
Settings for user and computer objects in Azure Active Directory Domain Services (Azure AD DS) are often managed using Group Policy Objects (GPOs)

Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) allows you to join Windows 10 devices
and not on Android

Compliance Manager ( free workflow-based risk assessment) 
creates the following Assessments for your organization: Office 365 ISO 27001, Office 365 NIST 800-53 and Office 365 GDPR.

Azure Policy offers several built-in policies that are available by default. In this question, we would use the ‘Allowed Locations’ policy to define the locations where resources can be deployed.

In Azure Portal, you are able to distinguish between services that are generally available (GA) or in public preview.
Any new service that is in the Public Preview state is marked in Azure portal with a (Preview) label, which makes it easy to distinguish the service from a service that is in GA phase.

After a service is tested, improved and transitioned to GA phase, it can be purchased and used by any Azure customer. The service will continue to be updated and receive updates until Azure decides to discontinue and retire the product.

Once the service transitions to generally available (GA) phase, you can simply continue to use the service, as before. You don't need to recreate the service in Azure.

Virtual machines in a VMSS can be deployed in same Azure availability zone or across multiple availability zones.

You can use Logic Apps to send email notifications from your Office365 or even personal Gmail account.

You can deploy physical servers in 
Private cloud and Hybrid Cloud

Help + support
To request a quota increase, you should open a new support request by navigating first to Help + support, on the Azure portal menu

** A PaaS solution that hosts web apps in Azure does provide the ability to scale the platform automatically. 
This is known as autoscaling


Launch Azure Cloud Shell from Azure Portal and select PowerShell. 
Run the command in Cloud Shell


Azure virtual machines provide hardware virtualization. 

Typically, you choose a VM when you need more control over the computing environment than the other choices offered

** Azure Advisor does not generate a list of virtual machines that are protected by Azure Backup. 
You can view a list of virtual machines that are protected by Azure Backup by viewing the Protected Items in the Azure Recovery Services Vault.
Azure advisor is a personalized cloud consultant that helps you follow best practices to optimize your Azure deployments.
. It doesn't include recommendations targeting Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).
.
You can't merge two subscriptions into a single subscription. However, you can move some Azure resources from one subscription to another or you can also transfer ownership of a subscription and change the billing type for a subscription.

From Azure Service Health, an administrator can't  view the health of ALL the services in an Azure environment.
Service Health provides a personalized view of the health of the Azure services and regions you're using.

Leasing software is an example of operational expenditure (OpEx) costs.
Leasing software actually means you pay every month for the software you are using.

Azure virtual machine scale sets let you create and manage a group of load balanced VMs. 
Scale sets provide high availability to your applications,

The number of subscriptions is unrelated to uptime SLA’s. -

You can deploy resources to multiple regions under a single subscription or
you can have multiple subscriptions with resources deployed to the same region.

A company can have multiple subscriptions and store resources in the different subscriptions. However, a resource can exist in one subscription only.

Most services go to 
Private preview (selected users, evaluation) --> Public preview (to all , beta , discounted, feedback)  --> General Availability GA

From Azure Service Health, an administrator can create a rule to be alerted if an Azure service fail

PowerShell can now be installed on Linux. 
computer has Azure CLI tools, not PowerShell installed.hence can't execute powershell scripts

IoT Hub (Internet of things Hub) provides data from millions of sensors. not ML

Implementing consistency across the Azure environment.
Azure Resource Manager templates 

Azure CLI, Azure Portal and Azure PowerShell can
manage Azure mgmt on Mac OS

Regulatory Compliance 
The Security Center blade from the Azure portal includes the ‘regulatory compliance dashboard’
Currently supported standards are Azure CIS, PCI DSS 3.2, ISO 27001, and SOC TSP.


principle of least privilege and costs must be kept at minimum.
"Just-in-time" is a feature available in Azure Security Center
access to your VMs is enabled for a specific period of time.
(JIT) VM access via Azure Security Center

free account has a 5 GB blob/file storage limit for first 12 months and no upload limit


Only US entities are eligible to apply and work in Azure Government dedicated cloud.
US gov entity
US gov contractor


Azure Network Security Groups (NSGs) can be applied at either the 
subnet level (part of a virtual network) or at the 
virtual machine level, 
on the network interface card (NIC) itself.

If you want or need to protect your entire virtual network, then an Azure Firewall

Firewall protects XSS attacks and not DDos


Secure your websites from attacks and generate reports 
DDoS Standard 

a tenant is associated with a single identity (person, company, or organization) and can own one or several subscriptions
a subscription is linked to a payment setup and each subscription will result in a separate bill
in every subscription, you can add virtual resources (VM, storage, network, ...)

When you login to Azure, you have a single tenant ID associated with your account which will not change unless you ask
You will only have 1 subscription unless you've purchased or manage other subscriptions 

A tenant is a Single instance of Azure Active Directory (single place to manage users, groups and the permissions)

A Subscription in Azure is a logical container into which any number of resources (Virtual Machines, Web Apps, Storage Accounts, etc) can be deployed
Subscriptions are not tied to an Azure Region and as a result can contain resources from any number of Region
A Subscription is only ever associated with a single Azure AD Tenant at any time

A Region is a grouping of data centres that together form a deployment location for workloads
There are a few special Regions that aren’t open to everyone – US Government Regions, the entire German Geography and China

Azure blades =  (menus) 

monitor the health menu = Monitor Blade
search for available VM = Marketplace Blade
azure security recommendations. =  Advisor Blade

The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) introduces new rules for organizations that offer goods and services to people in the European Union (EU

Azure Blueprints can be used to define a repeatable set of Azure resources that needs to be deployed in Azure.
Azure Blueprints are a declarative way to orchestrate the deployment of various resource templates and other artifacts, 

You can add an Azure Resource Manager template to an Azure blueprint
You can use Azure blueprints to grant permissions to a resource.

Each blueprint can consist of zero or more ARM templates. 

Azure China is operated by 21Vianet and not Microsoft.

Azure Government is operated by Microsoft.
Azure Government is available only to US government agencies and their partners.


Every Azure Region has multiple data centers.  This provides for high availability solutions within the same region
Availability zones replicate applications, settings, and data to multiple data centers.

At times, based on demand, you need to run multiple instances of this application across multiple virtual machines.
Scalability will start new instances of virtual machines when demand increases.


allow more resources on demand to stop the application from running in a degraded state when reports are generated
Elasticity allows applications to consume more resources on demand, then release those resources when resource demand is lessene

The Azure Monitor is capable of sending Email alerts to groups when defined thresholds are exceeded.

Azure service should you use from the Azure portal to view service failure notifications that can affect the availability of VM-01
*** In the Azure virtual machines page in the Azure portal, there is a named Maintenance Status

***A Local Network Gateway is an object in Azure that represents your on-premise VPN device. 
A Virtual Network Gateway is the VPN object at the Azure end of the VPN

Azure Synapse Analytics uses database snapshots to provide high availability of the warehouse

remove, 50 customized virtual machines each week

As availability zones are part of the same Azure region, they are used to replicate data and applications in the same region, to multiple data centers, and not to multiple different regions.


All data copied to an Azure Storage account is backed up automatically to another Azure data center.
FALSE
depends on the replication option
Locally Redundant Storage (LRS) is the default which maintains three copies of the data,, in the same data center.
Data could be copied to another data center (or availability zone), in the same region, if ZRS replication is chosen.
Data can be backed up automatically to another Azure data center in a different Azure region, if you choose GRS or GZRS replication.
Geo-redundant storage (GRS) has cross-regional replication to protect against regional outag

Encrypts the administrative credentials during the deployment
Key Vault

Azure Key Vault is used to store secrets for Server Applications

monitor threats in your Azure environment by using sensors?
Azure Advanced Threat Protection (ATP)


All Azure Free Accounts expire after a specif period
All Azure services are available with Free account
You can create a single Azure Free account using Microsoft accout

When a subscription expires, the trusted instance of the Azure AD service remains, but the security principals lose access to Azure resources.
You can change the Azure AD tenant to which an Azure subscription is associated.

An Azure subscription CAN'T be associated to multiple Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenants.


an Azure Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) solution, you No need to sync on-premises identities to the cloud
false

An Azure virtual machine or any resource in Azure actually can be deployed (and exist) into a single resource group

Azure managed disks are block-level storage volumes that are managed by Azure and used with Azure Virtual Machine
Virtual hard drives (VHDs) that serve as disks for virtual machines are stored in page blobs

You can get cost recommendations from the Cost tab on the Advisor dashboard

private preview are excluded from SLA

An Azure region can include multiple region pairs.
false

When using General purpose v2 Azure Storage Account
you pay for amount of data stored and for all read and write operations performed

Artificial-Intelligence based application.
Azure Cognitive services is a collection of SDK’s and API’s that can be used to develop applications with Artificial Intelligence capabilities 

You can club subscriptions into Management groups. This allows you to manage the compliance of resources across multiple subscriptions.

Does Microsoft release most of the Azure services in private preview before being introduced in public preview
No


Common platform for deploying objects to a cloud infrastructure and also ensure consistency in the implementation across the Azure environment
The Azure Resource Manager is responsible for the deployment of resources to Azure.

You can download and install the Azure CLI on macOS operating systems. 
You can also install Powershell on macOS based operating systems.


If you use a Platform as a service in Azure to host a web application, you can configure the hosts to automatically scale the number of instances based on demand

Group policies are not available in Azure Active Directory

The Azure Traffic Manager profile is used to distribute traffic at the DNS level and not for https

it is not required to deploy a federated solution to implement Multi-Factor authentication
No, you can enable MFA as a cloud only solution.

You cannot run Powershell scripts using the Azure CLI

The IAM permissions defined at the resource group level would be inherited by resources defined in that resource group.

Each subscription is a separate entity that can’t be merged.

Subscriptions only provide you access to services and products. They can’t be used to increase the SLA for Azure paid services. 
Yes, you can move virtual machines across subscriptions

The PowerApps portal is not used to create Azure based resources.

You can go to Help + support and create a new support request.

Alerts in Azure Monitor can also be based on data in a Log Analytics workspace.
Yes, Azure Monitor can monitor resources from multiple Azure subscriptions.

Network traffic filtering across multiple Azure subscriptions and virtual networks
Azure Firewall service to filter traffic across various virtual networks

network security groups can only be attached to subnets and virtual machines.


Monthly Uptime % = (Maximum Available Minutes-Downtime) / Maximum Available Minutes X 100

Users in Azure Active Directory can be organized into Azure Active Directory groups and not in Resource groups

Elasticity = Auto-scale

Fault tolerance for VM resources = Availability Set

An Azure Geography is a defined area of the world that contains at least one Azure Region.
AZ is a high-availability offering

A combination of a fault domain and an update domain is called Availability Zone

** A virtual network is scoped to a single region.

Sends encrypted traffic between an Azure virtual network and an on-premises location over the public Internet.
VPN Gateway


is a web traffic load balancer that enables you to manage traffic to your web applications.
Azure Application Gateway


A ' Point to Site VPN ' lets you create a secure connection to your virtual network from an individual client computer.


Microsoft recommends that you use 'Managed' disks for new VMs.


IoT Hub supports communications both from the device to the cloud and from the cloud to the device.


is Microsoft's cross-platform command-line experience for managing Azure resources
Azure CLI

is an on-demand analytics job service that simplifies big data
Data Lake Analytics

Azure Firewall 
allows you to centrally create, enforce, and log application and network connectivity policies across subscriptions and virtual networks


Azure DDoS Protection Standard can provide full layer 3 to layer 7 mitigation capability.

Built-in role can create and manage all types of Azure resources but can’t grant access to others
Contributor

You can have up to 2000 role assignments in each subscription


is a customizable dashboard which tracks the health of your Azure services.
Service Health

These security controls are generally applicable to US Federal Information Systems.
NIST

Azure Government uses same underlying technologies as global Azure.

Microsoft CAN'T assist with key recovery if a key that's stored in the Key Vault is lost.


Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) helps you manage who has access to Azure resources, what they can do with those resources, and what areas they have access to
A role assignment consists of three elements: 
security principal (user, group, service principal, or managed identity)
role definition (collection of permissions)
scope (resources that the access applies ) management group, subscription, resource group, or resource

** By default, within RBAC, a user is denied access to all resources and access need to be granted explicitly.

** An Azure subscription can only trust one directory.
More than one subscription can trust the same directory.

Azure VMs are billed by Seconds


identifies VMs with low utilization
Advisor